Source: https://docs.lmcache.ai/getting_started/compatibility.html
Retrieved: 2026-09-20

vLLM and LMCache compatibility | LMCache
Skip to content
LMCache
Toggle navigation menu
⌘
K
LMCache
Getting Started
Overview
Installation
vLLM and LMCache compatibility
Quickstart
Configuration Reference
Benchmarking
KV Cache Size Calculator
KV Cache Operations
CLI Reference
lmcache server
lmcache coordinator
lmcache describe
lmcache ping
lmcache query
lmcache bench
lmcache kvcache
lmcache quota
lmcache trace
lmcache tool
HTTP API
Frontend Dashboard
KV Cache SDK
Recipes
Uniform Attention Models
MiniMax M2 series
Mistral / Devstral
Qwen3 MoE
Llama
Phi-3 / Phi-4
Mixtral
Hybrid Attention Models
Gemma 3
Gemma 4
gpt-oss
Qwen3.5 / Qwen3.6 / Qwen3.8 series
Qwen3.8-Flash-Next
Kimi-Linear
Kimi K3
DeepSeek-V4-Flash
DeepSeek-V4.1-Flash
GLM 5.1/5.2
GLM-5.3
MiniMax M3
Multimodal Models
Qwen2.5-VL (multimodal)
Secondary KV Storage
Supported Backends
NIXL
Native NIXL
File & Block
FileSystem
FS (native)
Raw Block (Rust)
Remote & Distributed
Bigtable
SageMaker HyperPod
S3
HF Bucket
Mooncake Store
RESP (Redis/Valkey)
Valkey
Aerospike
DAX
Mock
Fault Inject
Plugin (Custom / External)
KV Cache Compression
CacheGen
Distributed KV Cache
Disaggregated Prefill
P2P KV Cache Sharing
Multi-Server Coordination
KV Cache Management
Use LMCache in Production
Deployment Guide
Kubernetes Deployment
Kubernetes Operator
Runtime Plugins
Dynamo Integration
Observability
Metrics
Logging
Tracing
Community
Community meetings
Blogs
KV Cache Optimizations
CacheBlend
Segmented Prefill
Lazy KV Cache Offload
Developer Guide
Contributing Guide
Adding Native Backends
Adding a New Device Backend
musa-aiter with LMCache on MUSA
Extending the CLI
Extending the HTTP API
Non-KV Caching
Encodings
Hidden states
Legacy (In-Process Mode)
More Examples
Using Different Storage Backends
Async Loading
Using Different Caching Policies
P2P KV Cache Sharing
Encoder caching
Using NIXL
Using shared storage
Compression
Layerwise KV Transfer
LMCache Controller
Blending
KV Caching for Multimodal Models with vLLM
Adding new storage backends
vLLM Dynamic Connector
Configuring LMCache
Internal API Server
Controller WebUI
Observability
Docker deployment
Performance Tuning
KV Cache Events
Architecture Overview
Integration
Usage Data Module
Basic Check Tool
Storage Plugins
Remote Storage Plugins
LMCache
/Getting Started
/vLLM and LMCache compatibility
vLLM and LMCache compatibility#
There is no single LMCache x vLLM version pair that guarantees every
model, connector, device, and storage backend. Compatibility has three
independent layers:
the Python, PyTorch, and accelerator runtime must be ABI-compatible;
vLLM must be able to load the LMCache connector implementation that you
intend to use; and
the specific model or feature must be validated for that combination.
Use this page to choose an installation path and to report an exact
compatibility result. The Installation page contains the commands for
each runtime and release channel.
What the version numbers mean#
vLLM and LMCache are released independently. A newer LMCache release
does not automatically mean that every older vLLM release can load every
LMCache connector, and a newer vLLM release can change the KV-cache APIs that
an integration uses.
The following table separates the checks that are often incorrectly treated as
one compatibility matrix:
Compatibility layers#
Layer
What must match
Recommended action
Runtime and ABI
Python minor version, PyTorch build, CUDA/ROCm/oneAPI runtime, native
extension ABI, and C++ ABI where applicable.
Use the LMCache wheel or container for the matching runtime. If the
environment uses a different PyTorch build, build LMCache from source
against that already-installed PyTorch.
Connector loading
The vLLM release must support the connector loading mechanism used by
the deployment.
For vLLM versions that support external connector modules, set
kv_connector_module_path to the LMCache connector explicitly. Older
releases use the connector implementation bundled by vLLM.
Feature and model
KV layout, block size, hybrid/recurrent behavior, transfer mode, device,
and storage backend.
Follow the relevant model or feature recipe and treat an unlisted
combination as unverified until it has been smoke-tested.
Installation and ABI compatibility#
For a published CUDA installation, use the stable or nightly instructions in
Installation. LMCache’s published native artifacts are built for a
particular PyTorch and accelerator runtime; installing a wheel from a different
runtime channel can produce native-extension or undefined-symbol errors even
when the Python package versions look compatible.
The practical choices are:
Published stable image or wheel: use the LMCache release and runtime
channel documented together on the installation page. This is the simplest
choice for a production deployment.
Nightly vLLM or a vLLM source checkout: use the matching LMCache nightly
when the feature is only available on dev. Nightlies are appropriate for
testing upcoming integration changes, not as a stable-version guarantee.
Custom PyTorch or accelerator build: install LMCache from source with
--no-build-isolation so its native extensions are compiled against the
PyTorch already present in the environment.
The release image follows the same rule: the vLLM and LMCache packages inside
the image are built as one runtime stack. Do not copy a native LMCache wheel
from another CUDA, ROCm, XPU, Python, or PyTorch channel into that image unless
the ABI tuple is known to match.
Connector loading in vLLM#
For the vLLM multiprocess connector, the version boundary that matters is
whether vLLM can select an external connector module:
MP connector loading#
vLLM version
What LMCacheMPConnector resolves to
Configuration guidance
< 0.20.0
vLLM’s bundled LMCacheMPConnector. These releases cannot redirect
the name to the connector shipped by the LMCache package.
Use the connector and server protocol supported by that vLLM release,
or upgrade vLLM before relying on a newer LMCache connector feature.
>= 0.20.0
The name still defaults to vLLM’s bundled connector, but vLLM can load
an external implementation.
Set kv_connector_module_path explicitly when using the connector
shipped by LMCache.
The explicit external-connector configuration is:
{
"kv_connector": "LMCacheMPConnector",
"kv_connector_module_path":
"lmcache.integration.vllm.lmcache_mp_connector",
"kv_role": "kv_both"
}
The external module path is important in a mixed environment: without it,
vLLM may silently select a bundled connector whose protocol or feature set is
older than the LMCache server. See Quickstart for a complete MP command
and the vLLM Dynamic Connector page for the vLLM external
connector mechanism.
Known version-specific validation points#
The following entries are exact facts currently recorded in the LMCache
documentation. They are validation points, not claims that all versions in the
same row or column are interchangeable.
Feature-level compatibility points#
Feature or model
Version point
Meaning
vLLM external MP connector
vLLM >= 0.20.0
The LMCache-shipped connector can be selected with
kv_connector_module_path. The vLLM bundled connector remains the
default unless it is overridden.
vLLM KV events
vLLM 0.13.0+
This is the minimum version documented for the KV-events integration;
event publishing still requires the corresponding vLLM configuration;
see KV Cache Events.
GLM 5.1/5.2 (GLM-5.2 DSA)
vLLM 0.23.0 + LMCache 0.4.7
This exact model/engine combination is recorded as validated in the
GLM-5.2 recipe. It is not a general support promise for every GLM or
every later release.
Kimi K3 (Kimi K3 hybrid)
LMCache nightly from 2026-07-27 or newer; stable LMCache from 0.5.3
The recipe currently requires the pre-release vLLM K3 image because the
model support had not reached a stable vLLM release when it was
validated. Check the recipe before upgrading the engine image.
Kimi-Linear (Kimi-Linear DCP)
vLLM newer than 0.27.1
DCP support for the documented Kimi-Linear example depends on the vLLM
change identified in the MP configuration guide. The LMCache server
chunk size must also satisfy the resolved block-span constraints.
For hybrid models, the model recipe and Hybrid Attention Models are more
authoritative than a package-version comparison. Different attention and
recurrent groups can have different physical page geometry, and a deployment
can be incompatible even when both packages import successfully.
How to evaluate a new combination#
When trying a vLLM release that is not listed in a recipe, record the complete
runtime tuple:
This includes a newly released version such as vLLM 0.28.0: being the
latest vLLM release does not by itself make the combination validated. Select
the appropriate LMCache stable/nightly channel, load the intended external
connector explicitly, and run the checks below before using it in production.
LMCache version or commit and vLLM version or commit;
Python minor version and PyTorch version/build;
CUDA, ROCm, or XPU runtime and GPU model;
connector name, external module path, transfer mode, and server version;
model, tensor/pipeline/context parallel sizes, KV cache dtype, and block
size; and
the storage backend and whether the test is cold, warm, or cross-process.
At minimum, run these checks:
start the server and confirm that the intended connector module is loaded;
run one cold request that stores a prefix;
run a second request with the same prefix and confirm a non-zero cache hit;
clear or restart the engine as appropriate and verify a cross-process
retrieve; and
compare output correctness and inspect the LMCache server logs for layout,
transfer, or worker-liveness errors.
For a model-specific feature, also run the commands and correctness checks in
its recipe. A successful import or a single cache hit is not enough to mark a
new model, hybrid layout, or accelerator path as validated.
Support labels used on this page#
Validated means the exact environment and scenario are documented with a
successful test result.
Required means a version boundary is needed to access a particular API
or integration path; it does not validate every feature above that boundary.
Recommended means the installation or development workflow should prefer
that channel, but it is not a compatibility guarantee.
Unverified means that no exact LMCache result is recorded in the current
documentation. It may work, but it should be tested before production use.
The historical Installation compatibility CSV covers older LMCache 0.3–0.4
releases. It should not be used as the current source of truth; this page and
the linked feature recipes describe the current compatibility policy.
Installation
Quickstart
On this page
What the version numbers mean
Installation and ABI compatibility
Connector loading in vLLM
Known version-specific validation points
How to evaluate a new combination
Support labels used on this page
© 2024, The LMCache Team Built with Sphinx 8.2.3